Paging in x86 systems

What is paging?
    Since the size of RAM is limited, CPUs need to use what is called Paging. Paging is implimented
by the MMU (memory managment unit). Uses part of secondary memory(like hdd) as virtual memory. Unused
application are move to secondary memory temporaily. 

Paging Overview
RAM = Frames and Secondary == pages
1. Paging is a memory managemnt scheme by which a computer stores and retrieves data from secondary
storage in same sized blocks called pages
2. This is important for using secodary storafe to let programs exceed size of available phys memory
3. Non-continuous memory allocation
4. Helps prevent external fragmentation
5. Logical address(in secondary) spcae is divided into equal pages
6. Physical address(in RAM)  is divided into equal size frames
7. Page size == frame size
>>Logical address or Virtual address (represented in bits)-
    AN address generated by a CPU
>>Physical address (represnted in bits)-
    an address actaully avaiblable on memory unit
>>The mapping from virtual to physical address is done by the MMU, which is a hardware
device and this mapping is known as paging technique 

Memory Managment
>>Address generated by the cpu is divided into:
1.page number(p)-used as an index into a page table which contains base address of each page in
physical memoyr
2.Page Offset(d)-combine with base addr to define the physical memory address that is sent to MMU

Physical Address is divided into:
1.Frame Number(p)-used as an index into the physical memory where process fram is located
2.Frame offset(d)-combined with base address to define the physical memory address that is 
sent to the memory unit

>>Every process has its own Page Table
>>Process Table is stored in Main Memory
>>Page offset points to Frame offset 

Page Table
    A page table is a data structure where page numbers are indexed to corresponding frames. CPU 
looks in page table for page number and gets the corresponding frame number to find address of 
page in physical memory. CPU also looks for the offset (which is the same for primary and secondary)
to link logical address to physical address. 
